= MigrationComments

Comments for your migrations

Tested on Ruby 1.8.6 using Rails 2.3.x.

== Why?

Migrations are wonderful.  They handle all your schema changes, and in a pinch they can bring
any database up to speed.  However, database schemas can change rapidly while a project is
maturing, and it can be difficult to know (or remember) the purpose for each table and field.
As such, they deserve to be commented.  These comments should be available for display wherever
those fields are found.

== Solution!

Using MigrationComments, you can simply add comments during your migrations.  Or if you already
have existing data structures, just add the comments afterwards in a separate migration.  And of
course you can always modify and delete these comments in later migrations.

So where are these comments used?  Firstly, they will be included in your schema.rb dump which
is where your IDE (e.g. RubyMine) should be learning about your model structure.  This means that
they'll be available at any point in your project.  Additionally, if you are using the 'annotate'
gem, these comments will be added to the annotations that are generated within your model.rb
file.

== Examples

Want to add a comment to an existing structure...

  self.up
    add_table_comment :table_name, "A table comment"
    comment_table :table_name, "A table comment"                      # does the same thing

    add_column_comment :table_name, :column_name, "A column comment"
    comment_column  :table_name, :column_name, "A column comment"     # does the same thing
  end

Or you can use the change_table macro...

  self.up
    change_table :table_name do |t|
      t.comment "A table comment"
      t.change_comment :column_name, "A column comment"
    end
  end

Creating a new table?

  self.up
    create_table :table_name, :comment => "A table comment" do |t|
      t.string :column_name, :comment => "A column comment"
    end
  end

You can also remove comments...

  self.up
    remove_table_comment :table_name
    remove_column_comment :table_name, :column_name
  end

Or you can combine these commands while modifying a table...

  self.up
    change_table :existing_table do |t|
      t.comment nil                                       # remove an existing table comment
      t.string :new_column, :comment => "a new column"    # add a new column with a comment
      t.change_comment :existing_column, nil              # remove a comment on an existing column
      t.integer :another_existing_column, :comment => nil # remove a comment on an existing column while modifying the column type
      t.boolean :column_with_comment                      # modify an existing column without altering the comment
    end
  end


== Requirements

You must be using a DBMS that supports COMMENTing (currently only PostgreSQL and MySQL).

If this isn't an option for you, check out the 'schema_comments' gem:
  https://github.com/akm/schema_comments
